---
title: "Faq"
date: 2020-03-05T08:54:07-06:00
draft: false
submenu: "details"
---

This is directly from [Doppelmayr's
FAQ](http://www.doppelmayr.com/en/doppelmayr-international/applications/urban/faqs.html?country=all)
on the usability of Cable Cars.

 
# Can ropeways still operate in bad weather?

Over several hundred years, ropeway technology has been put to the
test in mountainous regions where storms and snow are prevalent, and
further developed. Ropeways and Cable Liners can run in snow, ice,
thunderstorms and even with wind speeds of 100 km/h!  

# Can the carriers be cooled or heated?

Yes. Modern carriers are fitted with batteries and solar panels which
enable them to be heated or cooled.

# Can ropeways have several stations?

Yes. Several stations are no problem and are easily implemented.

# Are ropeways easily accessible for passengers?

Yes. All passengers benefit from barrier-free and easy access to the cabins on ropeways and Cable Liners.

# Are ropeways sustainable?

Ropeways are electrically operated and the infrastructure has only a
very minimal impact on the ecological footprint.

# Are ropeways/rope-propelled systems safe means of transport in cities?

Ropeways and Cable Liners are the safest means of transport in
existence! The kind of accidents that occur in normal road traffic
involving pedestrians, cyclists or collisions cannot happen as
ropeways and Cable Liners run on a dedicated route with no influence
on the traffic circulating below them.

# Aren't rope-propelled systems much to slow?

In comparison with other means of transport, rope-propelled systems
can achieve the same, if not higher average speeds than conventional
public transport systems. Ropeways are not held up by road vehicles or
traffic lights and can therefore always maintain their speed.

# What happens in an emergency situation?

All stations are manned by properly trained personnel. Carriers can be
equipped with cameras, two-way communication systems and an emergency
call button. Fire extinguishers can also be fitted in the carriers.

# How do rope-propelled systems blend in with the urban landscape?

Stations as well as tower structures are very flexible in terms of
design and can be adapted to suit local conditions and culture. The
stations can also be kept relatively small and simple, integrated into
existing buildings or built onto them.

# What does one kilometre of ropeway cost?

Generally speaking, rope-propelled systems can be built at roughly
1/3-2/3 of the costs of todayâ€™s conventional transport systems.

# How are rope-propelled systems operated?

A motor provides the central drive for all carriers. Neither brakes,
gear unit nor motors are required in the individual carriers as these
are propelled, accelerated and braked exclusively by means of the
rope. This technology is therefore very energy-efficient, eco-friendly
and cost-effective.
