---
title: "Why"
date: 2020-03-04T14:34:29-06:00
draft: false
submenu: "details"
---

# Why?

Birmingham has lots of great areas near downtown, but they are all
disconnected by physical barriers including mountains and
highways. This makes it very difficult for pedestrians to easily move
from one location to the next.

Birmingham currently has two forms of public transportation: the MAX
bus and the DART bus. Unfortunately, both of these are inadequate for
several reasons. The DART bus is a circulator that only runs
downtown. It does have the ability to move people between the
convention center, UAB, 5 points, and Lakeview, but unfortunately, it
only runs about once every 45 minutes, making it inconvenient.  This
also doesn't solve the most important goal of the Magic City
Connector: connecting great neighborhoods just outside of downtown
like Homewood. The MAX is Birmingham's primary bus system.
Unfortunately, MAX is known for having inconvenient routes, long
delays, and unreliable buses.  This reputation along with the stigma
of buses keeps people from riding.

Public transportation is an essential asset to any vibrant
city. People want to be able to take advantage of public
transportation, but won't until it is more convenient or more fun than
personal transportation. The Magic City Connector's goal is not to rid
Birmingham of cars, but instead provide a fun and convenient method to
move around downtown.

## Tourism

An airlift as part of a public transportation system is quite unique
and has only been done in a few cities around the world. This project
could not only bring in tourism, but also help those out of town
visitors move around the city more conveniently. The connector gives
tourists without a car the ability to easily move from hot-spot to
hot-spot, stop at tourist destinations like the Civil Rights Institute
and Vulcan, and visit neighborhoods over the mountain.

In addition, the Birmingham-Jefferson Convention Complex (BJCC) is
where many events and conferences are held bringing in many outside
visitors. It is located on the far north end of downtown, away from
any current entertainment districts and shopping centers. The proposed
connector goes directly into the BJCC offering a convenient way to
grab dinner, a drink, a show, or do some shopping during free time.

This summer work began on a new entertainment district adjacent to the
BJCC which is set to be completed in 2013.  Again, the connector would
help bring people from the south side of downtown to the new
entertainment district.

## Locals

There are more and more people living downtown everyday. Many of these
people are trying to reduce vehicle usage and walk or bike more.
Unfortunately, due to the terrain of Birmingham, what would be a short
bike ride in distance ends up being a difficult trek and in many cases
dangerous due to the lack of convenient and safe routes. While
downtown has many excellent bars and restaurants, most of the shopping
needs to be done in neighboring communities such as Homewood. The
connector would provide a new way for downtown residents to quickly
move about their city.

The reverse scenario also applies. There are many families living in
neighboring communities like Homewood who work downtown. The connector
could provide them a convenient way to work.
